report strategy

The objective is to produce data sets that can be graphed.
The type of graph may affect the structure of a data set.
Two types of graph are considered here.
x-y graph with multiple plot-lines
bar chart, optionally with multiple levels in a bar.

The x-y graph has two variants - common x axis values, and discrete x-y plots.
In the first variant the data structure can be columns identified as x, y(0), y(1), ... , y(N).
The alternate form is (x(0), y(0)), (x(1), y(1)), ... , (x(N), y(N)).
For bar chart the form of the first x-y graph can be adopted:
x, y(0), y(1), ... , y(N)
With the difference that 'x' is a text label rather than a numeric value.

For the source data sets in question (kakapo.json), a graph is composed as follows:

An individual 'y' datapoint corresponds to a single numeric value derived from a record.
For example, from a 'summary' record a value which is directly present in the map:   or "multi_rate".
Other values could be derived from the record, e.g.  "conditioning_duration" / "sender_count"

'x' value is similarly derived from the record, but in general should be some control variable rather than a measured value, e.g. "sender_count".

The graph is assembled by grouping and filtering the records used to produce plot values.
A simple way to do this is to specify a control value as the group basis.
For some data sets this is sufficient to produce a complete and single valued data-set.
For other datasets the outcome may either
- not produce all values for the product of group value set and 'x' values set;
- produce more than a single value for some combinations.

In this case, and in general, it may be appropriate to define a filter to be applied before attempting to construct a plottable data-set.

Summarising
A plottable data-set is constructed from a raw data set by a set of functions on the raw data points:

1 - a filter expression - predicate
2 - a group expression - should produce a small finite set of values
3 - a value ('y') expression
4 - a control ('x') expression - (numeric for x-y plots)

Given these three such functions on data-points, the following results are possible:

- determine the M x N size of the dataset
- determine if there are missing or duplicate elements in the matrix
- write a plottable data-file from the data

Strategies available for handling duplicate cells
- use the last value in the raw data set
- take an average
The report of duplicates should show the variation in the data.
The report should also indicate if other values than the source data are variant in the sample set.
